Code

  * Show All Code
  * Hide All Code

# Medical Insurance Forecast by Using Linear Regression

#### _Glorious Christian_

  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Data
  * 3 Insurance Member Behaviour
    * 3.1 Age of Insurance Member
    * 3.2 Sex of Insurance Member
    * 3.3 Region of Insurance Member
    * 3.4 Insurance Member who Smoke
    * 3.5 Number of Dependents
    * 3.6 Body Mass Index of Insurance Member
    * 3.7 Charges of Insurance Member
  * 4 What Variables Affect The Medical Cost?
    * 4.1 Charges Density Vs Sex
    * 4.2 Charges Density Vs Region
    * 4.3 Charges Density Vs Smoker
    * 4.4 Charges Density Vs Children
  * 5 Grouping The Equation
    * 5.1 Cat - 1
    * 5.2 Cat - 2
    * 5.3 Cat - 3
    * 5.4 Cat - 4
    * 5.5 Cat - 5
    * 5.6 Cat - 6
    * 5.7 Cat - 7
    * 5.8 Cat - 8
  * 6 Charges Prediction
  * 7 Study Cases

![](https://www.salonpoezji.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Understanding-
Medical-Insurance-Policy-A-Vital-Part-On-Everyone%E2%80%99s-Side.jpg)

# 1 Introduction

Health insurance is insurance that covers the whole or a part of the risk of a
person incurring medical expenses, spreading the risk over a large number of
persons. By estimating the overall risk of health care and health system
expenses over the risk pool, an insurer can develop a routine finance
structure, such as a monthly premium or payroll tax, to provide the money to
pay for the health care benefits specified in the insurance agreement. The
benefit is administered by a central organization such as a government agency,
private business, or not-for-profit entity.

According to the Health Insurance Association of America, health insurance is
defined as âcoverage that provides for the payments of benefits as a result
of sickness or injury. It includes insurance for losses from accident, medical
expense, disability, or accidental death and dismembermentâ (p.Â 225).

_(Source: Wikipedia)_

Goal of this data processing is to **predict accurately the insurance costs**.

# 2 Data

This dataset has 6 variable:

  1. Age: age of primary beneficiary.

  2. Sex: insurance contractor gender, female, male.

  3. BMI: Body mass index, providing an understanding of body, weights that are relatively high or low relative to height, objective index of body weight (kg/m^2) using the ratio of height to weight, ideally 18.5 to 24.9.

  4. Children: Number of children covered by health insurance/Number of dependents.

  5. Smoker: Is the person a smoker or not.

  6. Region: the beneficiaryâs residential area in the US, northeast, southeast, southwest, northwest.

  7. Charges: Individual medical costs billed by health insurance.

# 3 Insurance Member Behaviour

The purpose of this chapter is to get an insight of insurance member behaviour
such as: age, sex, region, smoker.

## 3.1 Age of Insurance Member

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)

The age distribution of insurance member is relatively the same, except 18 and
19 yâo members which has higher population (above 60). I also make a group
of memberâs age on table below.

    
    
    ##     Agecut total
    ## 1  [15,20]   166
    ## 2  (20,25]   140
    ## 3  (25,30]   138
    ## 4  (30,35]   130
    ## 5  (35,40]   127
    ## 6  (40,45]   137
    ## 7  (45,50]   144
    ## 8  (50,55]   140
    ## 9  (55,60]   125
    ## 10 (60,65]    91

## 3.2 Sex of Insurance Member

The gender of insurance member is almost the same (male = 676 people & female
= 662 people).

## 3.3 Region of Insurance Member

The region where insurance members are living in is evenly distributed.

## 3.4 Insurance Member who Smoke

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-6-1.png)

A lot of members are non smoker (79.5% or 1064 person) and the rest are
smoker.

## 3.5 Number of Dependents

## 3.6 Body Mass Index of Insurance Member

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-8-1.png)

Body mass index of members are normally distributed.

## 3.7 Charges of Insurance Member

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-9-1.png)

The distribution of individual medical costs billed by health insurance has a
positive skew.

# 4 What Variables Affect The Medical Cost?

I made this density analysis to find the variables which affect the medical
costs. From this analysis (you need to see the density chart), I gain some
insights:

  1. Sex is not make an impact to medical costs insurance because male and female has a same distribution/density against charges (look at Chart 4.1).

  2. Region is not make a big impact to medical costs insurance because 4 regions almost have a same distribution/density against charges (look at Chart 4.2).

  3. Smoker and non-smoker affect the medical costs insurance because the distribution/density have a big different (look at Chart 4.3).

  4. Total number of children/dependents have a same density against charges, except zero number of children. So, if youâre not have a child it will cause an effect to medical costs insurance (look at Chart 4.4).

According to those insights, I can conclude that **Smoke, total dependents,
age, and BMI** are the variables to predict the medical costs insurance.

## 4.1 Charges Density Vs Sex

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)

## 4.2 Charges Density Vs Region

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-11-1.png)

## 4.3 Charges Density Vs Smoker

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-12-1.png)

## 4.4 Charges Density Vs Children

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-13-1.png)

# 5 Grouping The Equation

Since smokers, total dependents, and BMI made an effect to medical costs
insurance, Iâm grouping those factors into 8 category shown on sub-chapter
below. Eventually, I only have age or and BMI as an input variable(s) to my
prediction equation. The equation will shown in sub-chapter, so you need to
check it.

**Cat - 1** : Smoker, have no dependent, BMI under 30.

**Cat - 2** : Smoker, have no dependent, BMI over 30.

**Cat - 3** : Smoker, have dependents, BMI under 30.

**Cat - 4** : Smoker, have dependents, BMI over 30.

**Cat - 5** : Non-smoker, have no dependent, BMI under 30.

**Cat - 6** : Non-smoker, have no dependent, BMI over 30.

**Cat - 7** : Non-smoker, have dependents, BMI under 30.

**Cat - 8** : Non-smoker, have dependents, BMI over 30.

## 5.1 Cat - 1

**Smoker, have no dependent, BMI under 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-15-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-16-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_smoker_nochild_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -5740.7 -2372.9  -776.5   612.0 17119.6 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) 11970.56    1454.78   8.228 5.55e-11 ***
    ## age           252.39      36.25   6.962 5.70e-09 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 4276 on 52 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.4824, Adjusted R-squared:  0.4725 
    ## F-statistic: 48.46 on 1 and 52 DF,  p-value: 5.696e-09
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_smoker_nochild_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2539.3 -1754.2 -1059.9  -203.1 15678.0 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  -956.74    5104.29  -0.187   0.8521    
    ## age           251.20      34.35   7.312 1.75e-09 ***
    ## bmi           505.18     192.06   2.630   0.0112 *  
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 4051 on 51 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5442, Adjusted R-squared:  0.5264 
    ## F-statistic: 30.45 on 2 and 51 DF,  p-value: 1.985e-09

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 2 variables
(age and BMI) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**-956.74 + (251.20 * AGE) + (505.18 * BMI)**

## 5.2 Cat - 2

**Smoker, have no dependent, BMI over 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-20-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-21-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_smoker_nochild_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##    Min     1Q Median     3Q    Max 
    ## -19722  -2239  -1235    786  19806 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) 28983.17    1737.81  16.678  < 2e-16 ***
    ## age           306.74      43.38   7.071 2.05e-09 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 5361 on 59 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.4587, Adjusted R-squared:  0.4495 
    ## F-statistic:    50 on 1 and 59 DF,  p-value: 2.05e-09
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_smoker_nochild_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##      Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max 
    ## -16667.0  -1505.1   -737.2     47.9  22684.4 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  8120.10    5338.78   1.521 0.133702    
    ## age           292.16      38.73   7.544 3.57e-10 ***
    ## bmi           614.01     150.40   4.082 0.000138 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 4766 on 58 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5795, Adjusted R-squared:  0.565 
    ## F-statistic: 39.97 on 2 and 58 DF,  p-value: 1.225e-11

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 2 variables
(age and BMI) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**8120.10 + (292.16 * AGE) + (614.01 * BMI)**

## 5.3 Cat - 3

**Smoker, have dependents, BMI under 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-25-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-26-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_smoker_child_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -4651.4 -1487.2  -352.5   637.6 15865.3 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) 10842.61    1332.43   8.137 7.77e-12 ***
    ## age           274.71      33.18   8.280 4.19e-12 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3199 on 73 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.4843, Adjusted R-squared:  0.4772 
    ## F-statistic: 68.56 on 1 and 73 DF,  p-value: 4.194e-12
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_smoker_child_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2741.8 -1070.1  -608.8    -5.2 15619.8 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  2428.48    2769.81   0.877   0.3835    
    ## age           259.48      31.33   8.282 4.56e-12 ***
    ## bmi           359.27     105.64   3.401   0.0011 ** 
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 2989 on 72 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5557, Adjusted R-squared:  0.5433 
    ## F-statistic: 45.02 on 2 and 72 DF,  p-value: 2.075e-13

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 2 variables
(age and BMI) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**2428.48 + (259.48 * AGE) + (359.27 * BMI)**

## 5.4 Cat - 4

**Smoker, have dependents, BMI over 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-30-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-31-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_smoker_child_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -4354.3 -2271.4  -859.3  1174.1 18445.4 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) 32648.20    1361.98  23.971  < 2e-16 ***
    ## age           241.21      31.86   7.572 4.89e-11 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3723 on 82 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.4115, Adjusted R-squared:  0.4043 
    ## F-statistic: 57.34 on 1 and 82 DF,  p-value: 4.889e-11
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_smoker_child_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2212.2 -1334.7  -653.6    40.7 17621.6 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) 16021.03    3341.64   4.794 7.30e-06 ***
    ## age           253.72      27.69   9.162 3.81e-14 ***
    ## bmi           447.91      84.22   5.318 9.08e-07 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3225 on 81 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5638, Adjusted R-squared:  0.553 
    ## F-statistic: 52.35 on 2 and 81 DF,  p-value: 2.553e-15

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 2 variables
(age and BMI) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**16021.03 + (253.72 * AGE) + (447.91 * BMI)**

## 5.5 Cat - 5

** Non-smoker, have no dependent, BMI under 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-35-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-36-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_nonsmoker_nochild_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2428.1 -1440.0  -886.5  -391.6 21672.8 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) -3239.15     687.81  -4.709 4.43e-06 ***
    ## age           277.00      16.79  16.495  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3950 on 217 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5563, Adjusted R-squared:  0.5543 
    ## F-statistic: 272.1 on 1 and 217 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_nonsmoker_nochild_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2457.4 -1453.0  -852.6  -391.1 21715.4 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) -3791.02    2191.60  -1.730   0.0851 .  
    ## age           276.56      16.91  16.354   <2e-16 ***
    ## bmi            22.40      84.44   0.265   0.7911    
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3958 on 216 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5565, Adjusted R-squared:  0.5524 
    ## F-statistic: 135.5 on 2 and 216 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 1 variable
(age) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**-3239.15 + (277.00 * AGE)**

## 5.6 Cat - 6

** Non-smoker, have no dependent, BMI over 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-40-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-41-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_nonsmoker_nochild_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2595.7 -1666.9 -1096.7  -377.7 20412.6 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) -2155.79     635.34  -3.393 0.000809 ***
    ## age           254.01      14.66  17.329  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3861 on 238 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5579, Adjusted R-squared:  0.556 
    ## F-statistic: 300.3 on 1 and 238 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_nonsmoker_nochild_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2811.9 -1632.1 -1099.0  -396.8 20324.2 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  -465.01    2319.97  -0.200    0.841    
    ## age           254.86      14.71  17.321   <2e-16 ***
    ## bmi           -48.90      64.53  -0.758    0.449    
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 3864 on 237 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.5589, Adjusted R-squared:  0.5552 
    ## F-statistic: 150.2 on 2 and 237 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 1 variable
(age) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**-2155.79 + (254.01 * AGE)**

## 5.7 Cat - 7

** Non-smoker, have dependents, BMI under 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-45-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-46-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_nonsmoker_child_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##    Min     1Q Median     3Q    Max 
    ##  -3050  -2080  -1578   -808  22412 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  -884.08    1029.59  -0.859    0.391    
    ## age           247.85      25.87   9.581   <2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 4975 on 281 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.2462, Adjusted R-squared:  0.2436 
    ## F-statistic:  91.8 on 1 and 281 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_nonsmoker_child_under30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -3255.8 -2178.9 -1528.4  -664.9 22367.6 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) -2835.49    2564.04  -1.106    0.270    
    ## age           245.27      26.07   9.408   <2e-16 ***
    ## bmi            79.79      96.01   0.831    0.407    
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 4978 on 280 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.2481, Adjusted R-squared:  0.2427 
    ## F-statistic: 46.19 on 2 and 280 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 1 variable
(age) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**-884.08 + (247.85 * AGE)**

## 5.8 Cat - 8

** Non-smoker, have dependents, BMI over 30.**

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-50-1.png)

Age vs Charges chart looks can be approached by using linear regression.

![](__results___files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-51-1.png)

BMI vs Charges looks have a disordered correlation.

    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age, data = ins_nonsmoker_child_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -3138.6 -2283.0 -1647.7  -746.8 24235.0 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept) -2161.36    1041.35  -2.076   0.0387 *  
    ## age           282.54      24.23  11.660   <2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 5250 on 320 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.2982, Adjusted R-squared:  0.296 
    ## F-statistic:   136 on 1 and 320 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16
    
    
    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = charges ~ age + bmi, data = ins_nonsmoker_child_over30)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -3320.7 -2278.4 -1636.0  -711.3 24252.0 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##             Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)  -923.87    2648.40  -0.349    0.727    
    ## age           283.07      24.28  11.658   <2e-16 ***
    ## bmi           -35.83      70.50  -0.508    0.612    
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 5256 on 319 degrees of freedom
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.2988, Adjusted R-squared:  0.2944 
    ## F-statistic: 67.95 on 2 and 319 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

From those two summary, I decided to use linear regression with 1 variable
(age) because it have a better R-Squared value.

So, the equation will be like:

**-2161.36 + (282.54 * AGE)**

# 6 Charges Prediction

From grouping the equation, I made a function to predict the charges. The
function is look like:

    
    
    predict <- function(x){
                   for(i in 1:nrow(x)){
                   if(x[i,"smoker"] == "yes" && x[i,"children"] == 0 && x[i,"bmi"] < 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = -956.74 + (251.20*x[i,"age"]) + (505.18*x[i,"bmi"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "yes" && x[i,"children"] == 0 && x[i,"bmi"] >= 30) {
                   x[i,"result"] = 8120.10 + (292.16*x[i,"age"]) + (614.01*x[i,"bmi"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "yes" && x[i,"children"] > 0 && x[i,"bmi"] < 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = 2428.48 + (259.48*x[i,"age"]) + (359.27*x[i,"bmi"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "yes" && x[i,"children"] > 0 && x[i,"bmi"] >= 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = 16021.03 + (253.72*x[i,"age"]) + (447.91*x[i,"bmi"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "no" && x[i,"children"] == 0 && x[i,"bmi"] < 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = -3239.15 + (277.00*x[i,"age"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "no" && x[i,"children"] == 0 && x[i,"bmi"] >= 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = -2155.79 + (254.01*x[i,"age"])
                   } else if(x[i,"smoker"] == "no" && x[i,"children"] > 0 && x[i,"bmi"] < 30){
                   x[i,"result"] = -884.08 + (247.85*x[i,"age"])
                   } else {
                   x[i,"result"] = -2161.36 + (282.54*x[i,"age"])
                   }    
                   }
              return(x)
              }

And the results of my prediction is shown on table below

**The Root Mean Square Error of my prediction:**

    
    
    ## [1] 4437.567

Mean error value of my prediction is about plus minus **4437.56**

**The Mean Absolute Percent Error of my prediction:**

    
    
    ## [1] 0.2672371

Mean percentage error of my prediction is **26.7%**

# 7 Study Cases

How much the insurance costs for this people?

  1. Daniel, 27 years old, 34.21 BMI, have no dependent, non - smoker, and living in northeast.

  2. Rani, 31 years old, 27.54 BMI, 3 dependents, smoker, and living in southeast.

Now, you can answer those question with this function:

    
    
    predict_charge <- function(age, bmi, children, smoker){
        if(smoker == "yes" && children == 0 && bmi < 30){
            result = -956.74 + (251.20*age) + (505.18*bmi)
        } else if(smoker == "yes" && children == 0 && bmi >= 30) {
            result = 8120.10 + (292.16*age) + (614.01*bmi)
        } else if(smoker == "yes" && children > 0 && bmi < 30){
            result = 2428.48 + (259.48*age) + (359.27*bmi)
        } else if(smoker == "yes" && children > 0 && bmi >= 30){
            result = 16021.03 + (253.72*age) + (447.91*bmi)
        } else if(smoker == "no" && children == 0 && bmi < 30){
            result = -3239.15 + (277.00*age)
        } else if(smoker == "no" && children == 0 && bmi >= 30){
            result = -2155.79 + (254.01*age)
        } else if(smoker == "no" && children > 0 && bmi < 30){
            result = -884.08 + (247.85*age)
        } else {
            result = -2161.36 + (282.54*age)
        }
        return(result)
        }

**The medical cost insurance for Daniel:**

    
    
    predict_charge(27, 34.21, 0, "no")
    
    
    ## [1] 4702.48

**The medical cost insurance for Rani:**

    
    
    predict_charge(31, 27.54, 3, "yes")
    
    
    ## [1] 20366.66

